---
space: S000129
property: P000055
value: true
refs:
- doi: 10.1007/978-1-4612-6290-9_6
  name: Counterexamples in Topology
---

Define $h:X\to[0,+\infty)$ as $h(x)=\frac{1}{\|x\|}-1$ and $r:X\to \mathbb S^1$ as $r(x):=\frac{1}{\|x\|}x$. These are clearly continuous maps on $X$ (the topology is finer than Euclidian). Then consider a metric $d$ given by:
- $d(p,q)=|h(p)-h(q)|$, if $r(p)=r(q)$;
- $d(p,q)=h(p)+h(q)+\|r(p)-r(q)\|$, otherwise.

Symmetry and reflexivity of $d$ is immediate. Triangle inequality requires consideration of few cases but is elementary as well.

By continuity of $r$ and $h$ we obtain that convergence in the topology on $X$ implies convergence with respect to $d$.

Assume $d(x_n,x)\to 0$ for some $x\in X$ and $(x_n)\subset X$. If $h(x)>0$, then clearly $r(x_n)=r(x)$ for sufficeintly large $n$ and $\|x_n\|\to \|x\|$,
implying convergence $x_n \to x$ in $X$.
For $h(x)=0$, we have $h(x_n)\to 0$ and $r(x_n)\to r(x)=x$ in the Euclidean topology. But since $x$ inherits Euclidean Neihgbourhoods we obtain convergence $x_n\to x$ in this case as well.
Hence $d$ is indeed a metric providing the topology on $X$.

To prove completeness of $d$, observe that
a Cauchy sequence $(x_n)\subset X$ with respect to $d$ either satisfies $h(x_n)\to 0$ or is eventually contained in one of the
open radii. Since any radius (i.e. $(0,1]\cdot p$ with $p\in \mathbb S^1$) is isometric with $[0,+\infty)$, a Cauchy sequence contained therein has a limit.
Now focus on the case $h(x_n)\to 0$. Clearly,
also $(r(x_n))$ has to be a Cauchy sequence.
Since Euclidean metric on $\mathbb S^1$ is complete, there exists $z:=\lim_{n\to \infty} r(x_n)$. Since also $h(x_n)\to 0$, we obtain
$d(x_n,z)\to 0$, which ends the proof.
